Bulger's Friend

It was rare sport for a certain element in the town when old Bulger
joined the Salvation Army. Bulger was the town's odd "character," a
shiftless, eccentric old man, and a natural foe to social conventions.
He lived on the bank of a brook that bisected the town, in a wonderful
hut of his own contriving, made of scrap lumber, clapboards, pieces of
tin, canvas and corrugated iron.

The most adventurous boys circled Bulger's residence at a respectful
distance. He was intolerant of visitors, and repelled the curious with
belligerent and gruff inhospitality. In return, the report was current
that he was of unsound mind, something of a wizard, and a miser with a
vast amount of gold buried in or near his hut. The old man worked at
odd jobs, such as weeding gardens and whitewashing; and he collected
old bones, scrap metal and bottles from alleys and yards.

One rainy night when the Salvation Army was holding a slenderly
attended meeting in its hall, Bulger had appeared and asked permission
to join the ranks. The sergeant in command of the post welcomed the
old man with that cheerful lack of prejudice that distinguishes the
peaceful militants of his order.

Bulger was at once assigned to the position of bass drummer, to his
evident, although grimly expressed, joy. Possibly the sergeant, who
had the success of his command at heart, perceived that it would be no
mean token of successful warfare to have the new recruit thus
prominently displayed, representing, as he did, if not a brand from
the burning, at least a well-charred and sap-dried chunk.

So every night, when the Army marched from its quarters to the street
corner where open-air services were held, Bulger stumbled along with
his bass drum behind the sergeant and the corporal, who played "Sweet
By and By" and "Only an Armor-Bearer" in unison upon their cornets.
And never before in that town was bass drum so soundly whacked. Bulger
managed to keep time with the cornets upon his instrument, but his
feet were always wo-fully unrhythmic. He shuffled and staggered and
rocked from side to side like a bear.

Truly, he was not pleasing to the sight. He was a bent, ungainly old
man, with a face screwed to one side and wrinkled like a dry prune.
The red shirt, which proclaimed his enlistment into the ranks, was a
misfit, being the outer husk of a leviathan corporal who had died some
time before. This garment hung upon Bulger in folds. His old brown cap
was always pulled down over one eye. These and his wabbling gait gave
him the appearance of some great simian, captured and imperfectly
educated in pedestrian and musical manoeuvres.

The thoughtless boys and undeveloped men who gathered about the street
services of the Army badgered Bulger incessantly. They called upon him
to give oral testimony to his conversion, and criticized the technique
and style of his drum performance. But the old man paid no attention
whatever to their jeers. He rarely spoke to anyone except when, on
coming and going, he gruffly saluted his comrades.

The sergeant had met many odd characters, and knew how to study them.
He allowed the recruit to have his own silent way for a time. Every
evening Bulger appeared at the hall, marched up the street with the
squad and back again. Then he would place his drum in the comer where
it belonged, and sit upon the last bench in the rear until the hall
meeting was concluded.

But one night the sergeant followed the old man outside, and laid his
hand upon his shoulder. "Comrade," he said, "is it well with you?"

"Not yet, sergeant," said Bulger. "I'm only tryin.' I'm glad you come
outside. I've been wantin' to ask you: Do you believe the Lord would
take a man in if he come to Him late like--kind of a last resort, you
know? Say a man who'd lost everything--home and property and friends
and health. Wouldn't it look mean to wait till then and try to come?"

"Bless His name--no!" said the sergeant. "Come ye that are heavy
laden; that's what He says. The poorer, the more miserable, the more
unfortunate--the greater His love and forgiveness."

"Yes, I'm poor," said Bulger. "Awful poor and miserable. You know when
I can think best, sergeant? It's when I'm beating the drum. Other
times there's a kind of muddled roarin' in my head. The drum seems to
kind of soothe and calm it. There's a thing I'm tryin' to study out,
but I ain't made it yet."

"Do you pray, comrade?" asked the sergeant.

"No, I don't," said Bulger. "What'd be the use? I know where the hitch
is. Don't it say somewhere for a man to give up his own family or
friends and serve the Lord?"

"If they stand in his way; not otherwise."

"I've got no family," continued the old man, "nor no friends--but one.
And that one is what's driven me to ruin."

"Free yourself!" cried the sergeant. "He is no friend, but an enemy
who stands between you and salvation."

"No," answered Bulger, emphatically, "no enemy. The best friend I ever
had."

"But you say he's driven you to ruin!"

The old man chuckled dryly: "And keeps me in rags and livin' on scraps
and sleepin' like a dog in a patched-up kennel. And yet I never had a
better friend. You don't understand, sergeant. You lose all your
friends but the best one, and then you'll know how to hold on to the
last one."

"Do you drink, comrade?" asked the sergeant.

"Not a drop in twenty years," Bulger replied. The sergeant was
puzzled.

"If this friend stands between you and your soul's peace, give him
up," was all he could find to say.

"I can't--now," said the old man, dropping into a fretful whine. "But
you just let me keep on beating the drum, sergeant, and maybe I will
some time. I'm a-tryin'. Sometimes I come so near thinkin' it out that
a dozen more licks on the drum would settle it. I get mighty nigh to
the point, and then I have to quit. You'll give me more time, won't
you, sergeant?"

"All you want, and God bless you, comrade. Pound away until you hit
the right note."

Afterward the sergeant would often call to Bulger: "Time, comrade!
Knocked that friend of yours out yet?" The answer was always
unsatisfactory.

One night at a street corner the sergeant prayed loudly that a certain
struggling comrade might be parted from an enemy who was leading him
astray under the guise of friendship. Bulger, in sudden and plainly
evident alarm, immediately turned his drum over to a fellow volunteer,
and shuffled rapidly away down the street. The next night he was back
again at his post, without any explanation of his strange behaviour.

The sergeant wondered what it all meant, and took occasion to question
the old man more closely as to the influence that was retarding the
peace his soul seemed to crave. But Bulger carefully avoided
particularizing.

"It's my own fight," he said. "I've got to think it out myself. Nobody
else don't understand."

The winter of 1892 was a memorable one in the South. The cold was
almost unprecedented, and snow fell many inches deep where it had
rarely whitened the ground before. Much suffering resulted among the
poor, who had not anticipated the rigorous season. The little squad of
Salvationists found more distress then they could relieve.

Charity in that town, while swift and liberal, lacked organization.
Want, in that balmy and productive climate, existed only in sporadic
cases, and these were nearly always quietly relieved by generous
neighbours. But when some sudden disastrous onslaught of the
elements--storm, fire or flood--occurred, the impoverished sufferers
were often too slowly aided because system was lacking, and because
charity was called upon too seldom to become a habit. At such times
the Salvation Army was very useful. Its soldiers went down into alleys
and byways to rescue those who, unused to extreme want, had never
learned to beg.

At the end of three weeks of hard freezing a level foot of snow fell.
Hunger and cold struck the improvident, and a hundred women, children
and old men were gathered into the Army's quarters to be warmed and
fed. Each day the blue-uniformed soldiers slipped in and out of the
stores and offices of the town, gathering pennies and dimes and
quarters to buy food for the starving. And in and out of private
houses the Salvationists went with baskets of food and clothing, while
day by day the mercury still crouched among the tens and twenties.

Alas! business, that scapegoat, was dull. The dimes and quarters came
more reluctantly from tills that jingled not when they were opened.
Yet in the big hall of the Army the stove was kept red-hot, and upon
the long table, set in the rear, could always be found at least coffee
and bread and cheese. The sergeant and the squad fought valiantly. At
last the money on hand was all gone, and the daily collections were
diminished to a variable sum, inadequate to the needs of the
dependents of the Army.

Christmas was near at hand. There were fifty children in the hall, and
many more outside, to whom that season brought no joy beyond what was
brought by the Army. None of these little pensioners had thus far
lacked necessary comforts, and they had already begun to chatter of
the tree--that one bright vision in the sober monotony of the year.
Never since the Army first came had it failed to provide a tree and
gifts for the children.

The sergeant was troubled. He knew that an announcement of "no tree"
would grieve the hearts under those thin cotton dresses and ragged
jackets more than would stress of storm or scanty diet; and yet there
was not money enough to meet the daily demands for food and fuel.

On the night of December the 20th the sergeant decided to announce
that there could be no Christmas tree: it seemed unfair to allow the
waxing anticipation of the children to reach too great a height.

The evening was colder, and the still deep snow was made deeper by
another heavy fall swept upon the wings of a fierce and shrill-voiced
northern gale. The sergeant, with sodden boots and reddened
countenance, entered the hall at nightfall, and removed his threadbare
overcoat. Soon afterward the rest of the faithful squad drifted in,
the women heavily shawled, the men stamping their snow-crusted feet
loudly upon the steep stairs. After the slender supper of cold meat,
beans, bread, and coffee had been finished all joined in a short
service of song and prayer, according to their daily habit.

Far back in the shadow sat Bulger. For weeks his ears had been
deprived of that aid to thought, the booming of the big bass drum. His
wrinkled face wore an expression of gloomy perplexity. The Army had
been too busy for the regular services and parades. The silent drum,
the banners, and the cornets were stored in a little room at the top
of the stairway.

Bulger came to the hall every night and ate supper with the others. In
such weather work of the kind that the old man usually did was not to
be had, and he was bidden to share the benefits conferred upon the
other unfortunates. He always left early, and it was surmised that he
passed the nights in his patchwork hut, that structure being
waterproof and weathertight beyond the promise of its outward
appearance. Of late the sergeant had had no time to bestow upon the
old man.

At seven o'clock the sergeant stood up and rapped upon the table with
a lump of coal. When the room became still he began his talk, that
rambled off into a halting discourse quite unlike his usual positive
and direct speeches. The children had gathered about their friend in a
ragged, wriggling, and wide-a-wake circle. Most of them had seen that
fresh, ruddy countenance of his emerge, at the twelve-stroke of a
night of splendour, from the whiskered mask of a magnificent Santa
Claus. They knew now that he was going to speak of the Christmas tree.

They tiptoed and listened, flushed with a hopeful and eager awe. The
sergeant saw it, frowned, and swallowed hard. Continuing, he planted
the sting of disappointment in each expectant little bosom, and
watched the light fade from their eyes.

There was to be no tree. Renunciation was no new thing to them; they
had been born to it. Still a few little ones in whom hope died hard
sobbed aloud, and wan, wretched mothers tried to hush and console
them. A kind of voiceless wail went among them, scarcely a protest,
rather the ghost of a lament for the childhood's pleasures they had
never known. The sergeant sat down and figured cheerlessly with the
stump of a pencil upon the blank border of a newspaper.

Bulger rose and shuffled out of the room without ceremony, as was his
custom. He was heard fumbling in the little room in the hallway, and
suddenly a thunderous roar broke out, filling the whole building with
its booming din. The sergeant started, and then laughed as if his
nerves welcomed the diversion.

"It's only Comrade Bulger," he said, "doing a little thinking in his
own quiet way."

The norther rattled the windows and shrieked around the corners. The
sergeant heaped more coal into the stove. The increase of that cutting
wind bore the cold promise of days, perhaps weeks, of hard times to
come. The children were slowly recovering the sad philosophy out of
which the deceptive hope of one bright day had enticed them. The women
were arranging things for the night; preparing to draw the long
curtain across the width of the hall, separating the children's
quarters and theirs from those of the men.

About eight o'clock the sergeant had seen that all was shipshape; and
was wrapping his woolen comforter around his neck, ready for his cold
journey homeward, when footsteps were heard upon the stairway. The
door opened, and Bulger came in covered with snow like Santa Claus,
and as red of face, but otherwise much unlike the jolly Christmas
saint.

The old man shambled down the hall to where the sergeant stood, drew a
wet, earth-soiled bag from under his coat, and laid it upon the table.
"Open it," he said, and motioned to the sergeant.

That cheery official obeyed with an indulgent smile. He seized the
bottom of the bag, turned it up, and stood, with his smile turned to a
gape of amazement, gazing at a heap of gold and silver coin that
rolled upon the table.

"Count it," said Bulger.

The jingling of the money and wonder at its source had produced a
profound silence in the room. For a time nothing could be heard but
the howling of the wind and the chink of the coins as the sergeant
slowly laid them in little separate piles.

"Six hundred," said the sergeant, and stopped to clear his throat,
"six hundred and twenty-three dollars and eighty-five cents!"

"Eighty," said Bulger. "Mistake of five cents. I've thought it out at
last, sergeant, and I've give up that friend I told you about. That's
him--dollars and cents. The boys was right when they said I was a
miser. Take it, sergeant, and spend it the best way for them that
needs it, not forgettin' a tree for the young 'uns, and--"

"Hallelujah!" cried the sergeant.

"And a new bass drum," concluded Bulger.

And then the sergeant made another speech.
